Hello,

I wanted to send a an explanation of what I am submitting as a project for my Hack Reactor application, as I suspect that, by itself, it might possibly be confusing.  This README is only necessary if you are curious about the basis for this project, and perhaps where I hope to take it.

I've been following a small group of theorists for close to nine years now.  This group is published in IEEE, which is the world's largest technical organization, but their ideas are rejected by the mainstream experts whose ideas they are challenging.  Four years ago, this interest transformed into a personal decision.  I had become convinced that there was something here that more people should be checking out, and by running arguments back-and-forth between these theorists and their critics, I came to see that even the experts were fumbling the debate.

For the past four years, I've been focused on the question of how to reform online scientific discourse, using this debate as a prototypical scientific controversy.  By linking theories in psychology and sociology with my own personal experiences as an against-the-mainstream online advocate, I came to understand how people react when faced with a complex scientific idea which they know little about.  I also came to realize that innovations in science, science education and scientific discourse have failed to keep up with the rapid pace of innovation within the technology industry.  A rough design solution has emerged from these efforts.  This is an important part of what is driving my application to Hack Reactor, and it's a subject which I did not bring up in my initial interview, as it did not seem relevant at the time.

But, now that I am writing code, an explanation of this design is possibly now helpful.  Online scientific discourse is completely broken in its current state.  There are nine fundamental innovations which I intend to code into a scientific social network:

1.  **Daniel Kahneman's Two-Systems-of-the-Mind Model**: Biases can emerge when the simplistic patterns that the intuitive mind uses to formulate believable narratives is used as a shortcut in place of rational sense-making.  Kahneman received the Nobel for this work, and it is the most predictive of all theories in online discourse.

2.  **Concept Mapping-Based Annotations**: Annotations were not only the inspiration for Google's PageRank; they were also, for a number of hours before they were turned off, present in the first web browser, Mosaic.  Concept mapping is a proven concept in physics education reform.  The two ideas are basically the same.

3.  **The Annotations Library**: Teaching people how to think LIKE A SCIENTIST, rather than WHAT SCIENTISTS THINK, involves teaching history of science, philosophy of science, and critical thinking standards.  All of these can be taught without anybody having to crack a textbook open with an annotations library.

4.  **A Better System for Ratings**: PageRank was motivated by the question of how to identify which annotations to visualize, but the annotation problem was basically abandoned Page realized PageRank.  If ratings are used to evaluate the applicability of an annotation from the annotation library to a remark, and the social network is limited to a niche like science, then the combination of the two can be used to reduce the level of noise.

5.  **Weakly-Interacting Layers of Discourse**: People are motivated to talk about science for different reasons, and these reasons can be vaguely linked to the structure of science itself -- concepts, propositions, models and worldviews.  I am convinced that scientific discourse will work better by using distinct sets of values for prioritizing visualization at each layer.  As an example, a person trying to diverge should not be forced to talk with a person trying to converge -- yet participation by both is critical.

6.  **A Managed Clash of Worldviews**: The most important and complex layer of discourse is also the one that is typically left out of science journalism.  Kahneman's theory suggests that people implicitly realize when information is difficult to procure, and see to avoid the work, accordingly.  That suggests that one concrete way to facilitate innovation in the sciences is to bring order to disorganized ideas at the fringes of conventional science.

7.  **Infographic Templates**: The medium should support the content.  This means that complex ideas require a discourse infrastructure that is not all text.  To avoid the TLDR trap, I want my scientific social network to base upon graphical templates which can be repurposed from one project to another.  This will make science fun again.

8.  **Deep Zoom**: I am curious if deep-zooming can be used to graphically prioritize the visualization of discourse.  In other words, most important would be visible at the top layers, while lesser rated contributions would require zooming to see.

9.  **Create a Crowdsourced Map of Scientific Controversies**: What I've learned over the past nine years is that there are more scientific debates than are being reported on.  By encouraging people of varying worldviews to comment on scientific press releases, I hope to map out the debates and perspectives to all of their logical conclusions for each relevant topic.

The small project I've submitted is an attempt to make progress and explore the possible API's which may be of use for this project.  It's helped me to understand a bit about the current state of Javascript's graphics-drawing libraries  I'm seeing that the graphical libraries do not all ncessarily play nice with one another.  I'm observing the challenge of translating this idea to mobile.  I'm also seeing that high-level decisions must be made about which technologies to pursue -- Raphael vs Snap.svg vs Canvas, etc.  And I'm recognizing that I will likely have to create my own annotation API to service my specific needs.  In particular, I am now keen on learning much more about the SVG technology and workflows, and I am particularly curious if I can reproduce the functionality of the CMapTools concept mapping software in jQuery and SVG overlaying interactive infographics.  But, I think I will need expert advice on whether and how to incorporate deep zooming.

This interactive infographic is part of a larger static piece, visible at <https://plus.google.com/108466508041843226480/posts/5Bpk1oRbEec>.  I had hoped to add in concept mapping annotations, but I now understand that this will require a bit more effort than I initially realized.

For a running commentary on this design, see my G+ page at <https://plus.google.com/+ChrisReeveOnlineScientificDiscourseIsBroken/posts>, where I now post exclusively upon this topic.